
<pre>                         Hacking </pre>

<details>
<summary> Hacking </summary>

**The Hacker**
<details> 
<summary> Schaar </summary>

“Hacking is changing the purpose of a machine or product that differs from the original purpose of its system.”

The hacker searches for a representation of what it is to be a hacker in the identities of other classes.
 
Whatever code we hack, be it programming language, poetic language, math or music, curves or colorings, 
we create the possibility of new things entering the world.
Where in that information new possibilities for the world are produced, there are hackers hacking the new out of the old.

To the hacker, what is represented as being real is always partial, limited, perhaps even false.

While hackers create these new worlds, we do not possess them.

We do not own what we produce - it owns us.
)
We transform the world, observe things others can’t. 
)
By its very nature, the act of hacking overcomes the limits property imposes on it.

The hack as new information is produced out of already existing information.

Through the production of new forms of abstraction, the hacker class produces the possibility of the future - not just ‘the’ future, but an infinite possible array of futures, the future itself as virtuality.

Like all forms of property, intellectual property enforces a relation of scarcity.

The hack as new information is produced out of already existing information. This gives the hacker class an interest in its free availability more than in an exclusive right. The immaterial nature of information means that the possession by one of information need not deprive another of it.

To the extent that the hack embodies itself in the form of property, it gives the hacker class interests quite different from other classes, be they exploiting or exploited classes. 

The hacker searches for a representation of what it is to be a hacker in the identities of other classes.!

The hacker class has produces itself as itself, but not for itself

It does not (yet) possess a consciousness of its consciousness.

Hacking is an attitude - it’s a way of seeing the world differently



Hacking is a caring process.

Different texts: 

Group 1
justify actions: Community, individual / collective, Online

Group 2 
Whatever code we hack, be it programming language, poetic language, math or music, curves or colorings, we create the possibility of new things entering the world.

Group 3
Hacking is care 

Group 4 
technological society, deconstruction. 
Observe, manipulating. Human behavior.

Group 5
New possibilities, cut across race/ abilities / geography ; hack as improve and understand not be accepted as fixed. - From material conditions to social form, biological forms. 


</details>

—————————————————————————————




OBSERVING


- It’s a way of interpreting the relationship between and of things.
The difference between looking, watching and seeing., 
observing, viewing and intervening.

-Be aware of your surroundings


Modes of inspection: observing, noticing and intervening:

To See – A baby sees. Whoever has an instrument such as eyes, perceives the three-dimensional world through them.
To Look – Apparently, he/she begins to notice phenomena, and to distinguish between them, and it is reflected in his/her eyes. (focus)
To Watch –If it were up to me, I would have written point-of-viewing. The brains begin to organize one’s sight.
To Observe – This is the ultimate level, in which sight becomes intelligence, an ordered and lucid internal knowledge.
To View – (by spectators), on the other hand, is a way of looking that involves a threat, an expectation...  Source: Noa Eshkol, In Her Words



.Affordences 

James Gibson - affordances
Means the ways in which you can interact with something. So, a chair not only “affords” being “sat on,” but also “thrown,” “stood on,” etc.

Affordances_James Gibson = The possibilities of interaction between the user and the object / thing.

Don Norman - The Design of Everyday Things
Thus, an object’s affordances depend on users’ physical capabilities and their goals and past experiences.
A chair only affords “sitting,” because past experience supports that action.

Affordances that you can perceive with an object/thing
Affordances_Don Norman = The experiences between the user and the object / thing create the expectations of the interaction between the user and the object / thing.


"...an affordance is neither an objective property nor a subjective property; or it is both if you like. An affordance cuts across the dichotomy of subjective-objective and helps us to understand its inadequacy. It is equally a fact of the environment and a fact of behavior. It is both physical and psychical, yet neither. An affordance points both ways, to the environment and to the observer."
- James J. Gibson, The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception: Classic Edition

Awerness:

Who is using the Thing/Object?
What is a different way of using a Thing or an Object?
What else can I do with the thing/ Object?



.Interfaces

The common boundary of (media) people and (media) apparatus is one example of what we call an interface. 

What is an interface?


- interface in bio hacking, or medicanal use; it connects the digital with the organic.

- Graphical user interface

- TUI - text editor GUI graphic - user interface Fluid Interfaces MIT - Hybrid

Book: Galloway: Interface Effect

Interfaces are not things, but rather process that effect a result of whatever kind. 
The interface between systems

Media vs Interface / Marshall McLuhan vs A.Gallowa 
Norman Rockwell triple self portrait.



.Anatomy 
Categorization:

"Anatomy is a branch of natural science which deals with the structural organization of living things." — Merriam Webster Dictionary
Anatomy = to cut open and see what’s inside.

Hacking advocates: the need to examine the ideas we  use to organize knowledge and inquiry, and to propose, advocate, or refute theories of knowledge’. 
- `Elegant anotomy, marieke M.A. Hendriksen

Anatomy is a form of interference ( intervering with a system ) 



Observation exercise - Inspection Tool
Assignment:

Individual:

05 min — place the object in front of you; open and close your eyes like 'flashes', repeat this exercise from 3 different viewpoints;
10 min — find a confortable position in relation to the object; close your eyes: use tactile movements, feel beyond the shape: the temperature, sounds, dimensions, compare its properties with the ones of your own body; change again the position of your body (altering possible trajectories); be aware of the negative space and how the objects relates to its surroundings.
10 min — describe the object from your point of view; what are its performative qualities and affordances (sustained/ contained/ continuous/ discrete/ allows for a sequence of actions/ operational); in which context can it be used?
10 min — describe the object from the point of view of the object; build a small glossary for the object — "as if it would speak and have a language of its own"; you can look into references and find "members of the same family";
05 min — reflect: make notes on the different processes/ procedures it allows you to undertake; what methods of observation and annotation did you use? is there an alternative to them?


15 min — swap objects: repeat the individual exercise;

In a group:

present — what / why did you bring that object?
discuss — what are the differences between the objects?
share — your annotations methods;



Outcome:

Protractor observations:

Triangle
Flat 
Curved edge to minimize the service resistance 
Color : white, green, yellow
Transparant 
Thin
Straight lined
Cutting 
Pyramid 
Pointy
Stingy 
Clicking sound of plastic
Shiney 
Light weight 
Purpose : Measuring degrees and length 
Ink on object will slowly fade away
360 degrees and 90 degrees 
Target - 14 cm
Mirror in combination with light
Deadly stabbing tool or throwing
Placed on a image the object transforms the image


Scissor:

Material: Rvs, Rubber, plastic
Color: Black, yellow, grey, white
Sharp
Engraved
Satisfying sound
Stabbing 
Throwing
Not sustainable
Poor construction
Rilling paper
screw
Needs sharpening
Cutting tool
Creating engraved circles
Angled 
Shiny
Pointy 
Rough sound
Not fitted for my hand




—————————————————————————————



Hacking Examples in Product design:

5:08 - 6:23 _ BBC - The Genius of Design 1 of 5 (Legendado)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ofW8yT6aoM


Olivier van Herpt - Solid Vibrations
http://oliviervanherpt.com/solid-vibrations/

Atelier NL - Knitting Lamp
http://ateliernl.com/projects/knitting-lamp

Studio Drift - MATERIALISM
http://www.studiodrift.com/work#/materialism/

Studioroosegaarde - van Gogh Path
https://www.studioroosegaarde.net/project/van-gogh-path

Studioroosegaarde - Sustainable dance floor
https://www.studioroosegaarde.net/project/sustainable-dance-floor



—————————————————————————————

Information Choreocgraphy -  joana chicau

"Choreography has become a metaphor for dynamic constellations of any kind consciously choreographed or not, self-organizing or artificially constructed. (...) If the world is approached as a reality constructed of interactions, relationships, constellations and proportionalities and choreography is seen as the aesthetic practice of setting those relations or seeing the conditions for those relations to emerge. Choreographic knowledge gained in the field of dance or harvested from perceived patterns in nature should be transferrable to other realms of life." 
Michael Klien, Steve Valk: What do you choreograph at the end of the world? 

= “writing movement” 

Choreography in Greek is spelled χορογραφια from χορός (dance) + γραφια (writing) 

However looking up the etymology of the word χορός in Greek, sources reveal that the word is probably formed either from χειρ/χερι (hand) or χώρος (space) 

= “space” is translated to greek as ‘chora’, which itself comes from ‘choreo’, which primarily means to give room, make space, (..) ‘chora’ is then space in the sense of gap, scope, distance, etc.. at Bollnow, Otto Friedrich. Human Space. London: Hyphen, 2011. Print. 

I thus define the concept of the ‘choreo-graphic’ as a writing space: new shared vocabularies, statements, propositions > discourse. 
A space for re-writing more critical, open, experimental and inclusive notions on movement and body(ies). 

(Choreographic language + Programming language) = Live Performance 
A hybrid form of composition, combining principles of choreography with the formal structures of web-coding.    Choreographies are socio-cultural constructions, critics to current systems, political positions or dispositions, alternatives to move or counter-move. Each epoch, each place, each culture, each instance of choreography resists and reform previous conceptions of its definition. As in choreography, web-design deals with space, time and movement constructs. It has been defining ways of moving collectively or individually, through fluid nonetheless complex landscapes of information displays, networked spaces, and multi-media environments.   In a time of networked mediation how can we interfere with the default condition of the human-computer interface? How can we embody transgression and choreograph countermoves in response to a computational infrastructure that surrounds us?  

Lesson from  joana chicau

1.  Laying around for 15 min in the classroom and consciously breathing trough our body’s and visualizing and creating awareness what happens when we for example move one muscle in our body. When moving your finger you can feel the muscles in your forearm.
2. After those 15 min we walked inside of the classroom to get a better understanding on how we as humans get influenced by a rhythm or our surroundings. 
3. The idea of this exercise was 

Patterns have unconsious influence on our life, like how we moved around the room, but also the way traffic has a system in a city.

Choreographie: percieved patterns in nature.
Writing movement
Think of bees or ants that work together. 


—————————————————————————————


Absent at varia. 

